Contributing guidelines reworked (#4318)
TeamNewPipe/NewPipe: .github/CONTRIBUTING.md

* Please show intention to maintain your features and code after you contribute a PR. Unmaintained code is a hassle for core developers. If you do not intend to maintain features you plan to contribute, please rethink your submission, or clearly state that in the PR description.
* Respond if someone requests changes or otherwise raises issues about your PRs.
* Send PRs that only cover one specific issue/solution/bug. Do not send PRs that are huge and consist of multiple independent solutions.
* Try to figure out yourself why builds on our CI fail.

## Communication

* The [#newpipe](irc:irc.freenode.net/newpipe) channel on freenode has the core team and other developers in it. [Click here for webchat](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)!
* You can also use a Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at [#freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org).

> * If you want to get in touch with the core team or one of our other contributors you can send an e-mail to
>   <a href="mailto:tnp@newpipe.schabi.org">tnp@newpipe.schabi.org</a>. Please do not send issue reports, they will be ignored and remain unanswered! Use the GitHub issue tracker described above, unless you are using the built-in crash reporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

NewPipe contribution guidelines
===============================

## Crash reporting

Report crashes in the automated crash report system of NewPipe instead of the GitHub issue tracker.
Reports are sent via e-mail, and contain all data needed for debugging, including your comments.

> You'll see exactly what is sent, and then send it.

Reviewer 2: @Stypox @wb9688 @B0pol that part is somehow outdated as we already have an in-app button for reporting on GutHub.

## Issue reporting/feature requests

> * **Already reported**? Browse the [existing issues](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues) to make sure your issue/feature
> hasn't been reported/requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Already reported**? Browse the [existing issues](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues) to make sure your issue/feature hasn't been reported/requested.
```

* **Already fixed**? Check whether your issue/feature is already fixed/implemented.
* **Still relevant**? Check if the issue still exists in the latest release/beta version.

> * **Can you fix it**? If you are an Android/Java developer, you are always welcome to fix an issue or implement a feature yourself. PRs welcome!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Can you fix it**? If you are an Android/Java developer, you are always welcome to fix an issue or implement a feature yourself. PRs welcome! See [Code contribution](#code-contribution) for more info.
```

* **Is it in English**? Issues in other languages will be ignored unless someone translates them.

> * **Is it one issue**?. Multiple issues require multiple reports, that can be linked to track their statuses.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Is it one issue**? Multiple issues require multiple reports, that can be linked to track their statuses.
```

* **The template** Fill it out, everyone wins. Your issue has a chance of getting fixed.

## Join the developer team

> * Help rid NewPipe of bugs by sending an e-mail saying you want to join to <a href="mailto:tnp@newpipe.schabi.org">tnp@newpipe.schabi.org</a>, mentioning what you want to help with.

Reviewer: The phrase "saying you want to join to [email]" is weird to read. That's why I swapped those phrases in my previous suggestion.
```suggestion
* Help rid NewPipe of bugs by sending an e-mail to <a href="mailto:tnp@newpipe.schabi.org">tnp@newpipe.schabi.org</a> saying you want to join, mentioning what you want to help with.
```

> You will get further instructions. You may be asked to register at our [Sentry](https://sentry.schabi.org) instance.

Reviewer 2: We should add our IRC/Matrix channel as primary contact option.

> You will get further instructions.

I think we can remove that.

Reviewer: > I think we can remove that.

Yeah, it sounds a little shady. xD

"Wait in the alley behind the apartments around midnight. You will get further instructions there."

## Translation

> * NewPipe is translated via [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/strings/).
> Log in there with your GitHub account, or register.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* NewPipe is translated via [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/strings/). Log in there with your GitHub account, or register.
```

* Add the language you want to translate if it is not there already: see [How to add a new language](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/wiki/How-to-add-a-new-language-to-NewPipe) in the wiki.

## Code contribution

> * Add a feature or change one by opening an issue describing your change. This gives the team and community a chance to give feedback before you spend time on something already underwway,could be done differently, or should be avoided.

Reviewer 2: underway

> * Add a feature or change one by opening an issue describing your change. This gives the team and community a chance to give feedback before you spend time on something already underway,what shhould be done differently, or avoided.

Reviewer: "something already underway" is needlessly vague. Other than that, some consistency added.
```suggestion
* Add a feature or change one by opening an issue describing your change. This gives the team and the community a chance to give feedback before you spend time on a feature that is already in development, should be done differently, or should be avoided completely.
```

* Stick to NewPipe's style conventions of [checkStyle](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle). It runs each time you build the project.

> * Do not bring non-free software (e.g. binary blobs) into the project. Make sure you do not introduce Google
>   libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Do not bring non-free software (e.g. binary blobs) into the project. Make sure you do not introduce Google libraries.
```

* Stick to NewPipe's style conventions: follow [checkStyle](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle). It will run each time you build the project.
* Do not bring non-free software (e.g. binary blobs) into the project. Also, make sure you do not introduce Google
* Add a feature or change one by opening an issue describing your change. This gives the team and community a chance to give feedback before you spend time on something already underwway,could be done differently, or should be avoided.
* Stick to NewPipe's style conventions of [checkStyle](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle). It runs each time you build the project.
* Do not bring non-free software (e.g. binary blobs) into the project. Make sure you do not introduce Google
  libraries.
* Stick to [F-Droid contribution guidelines](https://f-droid.org/wiki/page/Inclusion_Policy).
* Make changes on a separate branch with a meaningful name, not on the master neither dev branch. This is commonly known as *feature branch workflow*. You
  may then send your changes as a pull request (PR) on GitHub.
* When submitting changes, you confirm that your code is licensed under the terms of the

>   [GNU General Public License v3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html).

Reviewer 2: this should not be removed

Author: Why not. I contend that it is useless, and that it wasn't there before.

> * Please test (compile and run) your code before submitting changes! Ideally, provide test feedback in the PR
>   description. Untested code will **not** be merged!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Please test (compile and run) your code before submitting changes! Ideally, provide test feedback in the PR description. Untested code will **not** be merged!
```

> * Make sure your PR is up-to-date with the rest of the code. Often, a simple click on "Update branch" will do the job, but if not, you are asked to rebase the dev branch manually and resolve the problems on your own. You can find help [on the wiki](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/wiki/How-to-merge-a-PR). That makes the
>   maintainers' jobs way easier.

Reviewer: you are asked to -> you must
```suggestion
* Make sure your PR is up-to-date with the rest of the code. Often, a simple click on "Update branch" will do the job, but if not, you must rebase the dev branch manually and resolve the problems on your own. You can find help [on the wiki](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/wiki/How-to-merge-a-PR). That makes the maintainers' jobs way easier.
```

> * The [#newpipe](irc:irc.freenode.net/newpipe) channel on freenode has the core team and other developers in it. [Click here for webchat](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)!

Reviewer 2: While we are at it: please mention that there is a matrix bridge and link to it

Author: I couldn't quite figure out how to link to it, but I fished out the address.
Maintainer edits are on, so you can add that if needed.

Reviewer 3: https://matrix.to/#/#newpipe:matrix.org

> * You can also use a Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at #freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org, or by clicking https://matrix.to/#/#freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* You can also use a Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at [#freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org](https://matrix.to/#/#freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org).
```

>   tracker described above, unless you are using the built-in crash reporter.

Reviewer: 52-54 can be made one line.

Author: @opusforlife2 Remove newline where? The line numbers changed.

Reviewer: "If you want to get in touch" until "built-in crash reporter"
There are deleted lines in the diff, so it's not letting me select and edit them.

Author: Sorted

Reviewer: You merged 2 lines. There were 3.

NewPipe contribution guidelines
===============================

## Crash reporting

> Report crashes in the automated crash report system of NewPipe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Report crashes through the automated crash report system of NewPipe.
```

> That way you get all data needed for debugging included in your bugreport for GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way all the data needed for debugging is included in your bug report for GitHub.
```

Reviewer: I don't think 'bug report' can be written as one word, but it doesn't really matter, so I'm marking this as resolved.

Author: It is a bit daft not to. https://source.android.com/setup/contribute/read-bug-reports is consistently "bugreport", apart from the headline… :)

Reviewer: No it isn't. I see 11 matches for "bugreport" and 15 matches for "bug report". The documentation was likely written by different people, but ultimately, as I said, it doesn't matter.

> That way you get all data needed for debugging included in your bugreport for GitHub.

Author: ```suggestion
This way all the data needed for debugging is included in your bugreport for GitHub.
```

> You'll see exactly what is sent, add your comments, and then send it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll see exactly what is sent, be able to add your comments, and then send it.
```

## Issue reporting/feature requests

* **Already reported**? Browse the [existing issues](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/issues) to make sure your issue/feature
hasn't been reported/requested.
* **Already fixed**? Check whether your issue/feature is already fixed/implemented.
* **Still relevant**? Check if the issue still exists in the latest release/beta version.
* **Can you fix it**? If you are an Android/Java developer, you are always welcome to fix an issue or implement a feature yourself. PRs welcome!
* **Is it in English**? Issues in other languages will be ignored unless someone translates them.

> * **Is it one issue**?. Multiple issues require multiple reports, that can be linked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Is it one issue**?. Multiple issues require multiple reports so that we can track their status properly. 
```

Author: Trying to keep it short here, it doesn't need to be broken down into fundamentals.

Reviewer 4: What about "allowing proper tracking"

> * **The template** Fill it out, everyone wins. Your issue has a chance of getting fixed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **The template**: Fill it out, everyone wins. Your issue has a chance of getting fixed.
```

## Join the developer team

> * Help rid NewPipe of bugs by sending an e-mail saying you want to join to <a href="mailto:tnp@newpipe.schabi.org">tnp@newpipe.schabi.org</a> that says what you want to help with.

Reviewer: Or say so on IRC?

Author: @opusforlife2 Likely to get lost there. Easier to keep track of who does what with e-mails than IRC backlog I should think.

Reviewer: I don't mean you should replace e-mail with IRC there. Just add it as an option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Help rid NewPipe of bugs by sending an e-mail to <a href="mailto:tnp@newpipe.schabi.org">tnp@newpipe.schabi.org</a> saying you want to join, and mention what you want to help with.
```

Reviewer: Since it's just one point, remove the bullet?

Author: Looks out of place with everything else bulleted, as if it is the main point. If it is, it can be removed.

You may be asked to register at our [Sentry](https://sentry.schabi.org) instance.

## Translation

* NewPipe is translated via [Weblate](https://hosted.weblate.org/projects/newpipe/strings/).
Log in there with your GitHub account, or register.
* Add the language you want to translate if it is not there already: see [How to add a new language](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/wiki/How-to-add-a-new-language-to-NewPipe) in the wiki.

## Code contribution

> * Add a feature or change one by opening an issue describing your change. This gives the team and community a chance to give feedback before you spend time on something already underway,could be done differently, or should be avoided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Add or modify a feature by opening an issue describing your change. This gives the team and the community a chance to give feedback before you spend time on a feature that is already being developed, could be done differently, or should be avoided.
```

Author: Changed

* Stick to NewPipe's style conventions of [checkStyle](https://github.com/checkstyle/checkstyle). It runs each time you build the project.
* Do not bring non-free software (e.g. binary blobs) into the project. Make sure you do not introduce Google
  libraries.
* Stick to [F-Droid contribution guidelines](https://f-droid.org/wiki/page/Inclusion_Policy).

> * Make changes on a separate branch with a meaningful name, not on the _master_ nor the _dev_ branch. This is commonly known as *feature branch workflow*. You may then send your changes as a pull request (PR) on GitHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Make changes on a separate branch with a meaningful name, not on the _master_ or _dev_ branches. This is commonly known as *feature branch workflow*. You may then send your changes as a pull request (PR) on GitHub.
```

Author: Master and dev are just onto themselves singular branches. Will accept rationale for "or" over "nor".

Reviewer: It can be either:
"not on the master branch or the dev branch"
or
"not on the master or dev branches"

Because 'branch' by itself can only refer to one branch, not multiple.

If you want to use nor, you would have to frame it differently: "neither the master branch nor the dev branch". When you negate an entire list with 'not', it carries over all the individual elements. So you would say:
"I like neither 1, nor 2, nor 3."
or
"I do not like 1, 2, or 3"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Make changes on a separate branch with a meaningful name, not on the _master_ branch or the _dev_ branch. This is commonly known as *feature branch workflow*. You may then send your changes as a pull request (PR) on GitHub.
```

* Please test (compile and run) your code before submitting changes! Ideally, provide test feedback in the PR
  description. Untested code will **not** be merged!
* Make sure your PR is up-to-date with the rest of the code. Often, a simple click on "Update branch" will do the job, but if not, you are asked to rebase the dev branch manually and resolve the problems on your own. You can find help [on the wiki](https://github.com/TeamNewPipe/NewPipe/wiki/How-to-merge-a-PR). That makes the
  maintainers' jobs way easier.

> * Please show intention to maintain your features and code after you contributed it. Unmaintained code is a hassle for core developers. If you do not intend to maintain features you contributed, please rethink your submission, or clearly state that in the PR description.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Please show intention to maintain your features and code after you contribute a PR. Unmaintained code is a hassle for core developers. If you do not intend to maintain features you plan to contribute, please rethink your submission, or clearly state that in the PR description.
```

Author: Not the moral dread of burdening the noble maintainers, but instead a barrier to contributions. I went with the latter as it seems more intentional.

> * Respond yourselves if someone requests changes or otherwise raises issues about your PRs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Respond yourself if someone requests changes or otherwise raises issues about your PRs.
```

Author: Already clear from "your".

Reviewer: Sorry, I didn't get it.

Author: Since it says "your", there is no need to have "yourself/yourselves".

Reviewer: Ah. I didn't see the changed wording then, so I was confused.

> * Send PR that only cover one specific issue/solution/bug. Do not send PRs that are huge and consists of multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Send PRs that only cover one specific issue/solution/bug. Do not send PRs that are huge and consist of multiple independent solutions.
```

>   independent solutions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: Good catch :)

* Try to figure out yourself why builds on our CI fail.

## Communication

> * The [#newpipe](irc:irc.freenode.net/newpipe) channel on freenode has the core team and other developers in it. [Click here for webchat](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The [#newpipe](irc:irc.freenode.net/newpipe) channel on Freenode has the core team and other developers in it. [Click here for webchat](https://webchat.freenode.net/?channels=newpipe)!
```

Author: Actual spelling is "freenode" as per http://freenode.net/

Reviewer: Oh. Okay. I just capitalised it to draw attention to it. How about making it a hyperlink to https://freenode.net/?

> * There is also a Matrix room at #newpipe:matrix.org

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can also use an existing/new Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at #freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org.
```

Reviewer 2: You can also use a~~n existing/new~~ Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at #freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org.

Reviewer: Edited. 👍

> * You can also use a Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at #freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org.

Author: ```suggestion
* You can also use a Matrix account to join the Newpipe channel at #freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org, or by clicking https://matrix.to/#/#freenode_#newpipe:matrix.org.
```

* If you want to get in touch with the core team or one of our other contributors you can send an e-mail to
  <a href="mailto:tnp@newpipe.schabi.org">tnp@newpipe.schabi.org</a>. Please do not send issue reports, they will be ignored and remain unanswered! Use the GitHub issue

>   tracker described above, unless you can use the built-in crash reporter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  tracker described above, unless you are using the built-in crash reporter.
```
